>>> ON THIS EDITION FO
SATURDAY, JANUARY 11th, TH
FORMER ISRAELI POLITICAL AND
MILITARY LEADER ARIEL SHARON HAS
DIED
MARGARET WARNER LOOKS BACK A
HIS LIFE
>>> IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT THE
RISE OF POVERTY IN THE SUBURBS
>> WE SEE ONE OF THE FEW FOO
PANTRIES BUT IT'S MULTIPLYING ON
A LEVEL THAT IT'S HARD T
COMPREHEND
>>> AND WE'LL EXAMINE HOW WAGE
HAVE NOT NEARLY KEPT UP WITH
INFLATION.
NEXT ON "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS,
HARI SREENIVASAN
>> GOOD EVENING.
ARIEL SHARON ONE OF THE MOST
IMPORTANT MILITARY AND POLITICAL
FIGURES IN MODERN ISRAEL
HISTORY DIED TODAY
HE WAS 85.
SHARON SUFFERED A MASSIVE STROKE
EIGHT YEARS AGO AND HAD BEEN I
A COMA EVER SINCE.
WE'LL LOOK AT HIS LIFE RIGHT
AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY
>>> THE WINTER OLYMPICS IN
RUSSIA ARE FOUR WEEKS AWAY AND
TODAY AUTHORITIES THERE SAID
THEY ARRESTED FIVE MEN THE
CALLED MEMBERS OF AN
INTERNATIONAL TERRORIST GROUP.
THEY WERE ARMED WITH GRENADES,
AMMUNITION AND A BOMB.
THE INCIDENT OCCURRED ABOUT 19
MILES AWAY FROM SOCHI.
THE SITE OF THE GAMES.
ISLAMIC INSURGENTS HAV
THREATENED ATTACKS DURING TH
COMPETITION.
>>> BACK IN THIS COUNTRY
FEDERAL AUTHORITIES AR
CONTINUING TO DELIVER TRUC
LOADS OF WATER TO CHARLESTON
WEST VIRGINIA.
SOME 300,000 PEOPLE IN AND
AROUND THE CITY HAVE NOT BEE
ABLE TO DRINK WATER OR USE IT TO
BATHE SINCE A CHEMICAL SPILL WAS
DISCOVERED THURSDAY MORNING.
MANY PEOPLE ARE COMPLAINING OF
HEADACHES, VOMITING AND RASHES
>>> AND THE SETTLEMENT HAS BEE
UPHELD AGAINST B.P. IN
CONNECTION WITH THE OIL SPIL
THIS THE GULF OF MEXICO.
IN OCTOBER THE COMPANY PROJECTED
THE COST OF THE SETTLEMENT A
MORE THAN $9 BILLION, BUT SAID
IT COULD GO SIGNIFICANTL
HIGHER
THE EXPLOSION OF THE DEEP WATE
DRILLING RIG AND RUPTURE OF AN
OILWELL KILLED 11 PEOPLE AND LED
TO THE BIGGEST OFF SHORE OIL
SPILL IN U.S. HISTORY.
>>> MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL'
ARBITRATOR REDUCED ALE
RODRIGUEZ'S SUSPENSION
IT'S THE LONGEST DRUG SUSPENSION
IN BASEBALL HISTORY AN
RODRIGUEZ WILL FORFEIT HIS
YEARLY SALARY, $25 MILLION
HE MAY CHALLENGE THIS RULING I
FEDERAL COURT.
>>> LARGE PARTS OF A TIBETAN
CITY, ONE OF SEVERAL CLAIMING TO
BE THE INSPIRATION FOR THE
FICTIONAL PARADISE SHRANGLY WHAT
BURNED TO THE GROUND TODAY
>>> FOR MORE ON THE LIFE O
ARIEL SHARON, MARGARET WARNER.
>> HE WAS ONE OF THE MOS
CONTROVERSIAL FIGURES.
A FEROCIOUS MILITARY STRATEGIS
AND HARD NOSED POLITICIAN WHOS
LIFE AND CAREER SPANNED TH
ENTIRE 65 YEAR HISTORY
AT JUST 20, ARIEL SHARON SHONE
AS A PLATOON COMMANDER IN TH
WAR OF INDEPENDENCE IN 1948 AN
LAUNCHED HIS METEORIC BUT AT
TIMES CONTENTIOUS MILITARY
CAREER
IN THE YEARS AFTER INDEPENDENC
HE EARNED THE ENMITY OF MANY B
LEADING UNIT 101 AND SOMETIMES
BRUTAL ATTACKS AGAINST PALESTINI
RESISTANCE FIGHTERS AN
CIVILIANS.
UNIT 101 RESPONDED TO TH
KILLING OF THREE ISRAELI
CIVILIANS WITH THE ATTACK ON A
WEST BANK TOWN KIBYA, LEAVING 69
PALESTINIANS DEAD, INCLUDING
MANY WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
IT WAS TO BE A LESSON HE WROTE
YEARS LATER IN THE
AUTOBIOGRAPHY, I WAS TO INFLIC
AS MANY CASUALTIES AS I COULD.
I WAS TO BLOW UP EVERY MAJOR
BUILDING IN THE TOWN
HIS TOUGH AND DEFIANT STREAK
SHOWED UP IN THE SUEZ WAR.
EGYPTIAN SOLDIERS AMBUSHED AND
KILLED DOZENS OF HIS ISRAELI
TROOPS
FORCING THEM TO RETREAT.
BUT IN THE SIX DAY WAR HE WA
HAILED AS A HERO WHEN AS A
COMMANDER IN THE SINAI, HE
CAPTURED THE ENTIRE PENINSUL
FROM THE EGYPTIAN ARMY
HE PLAYED AN IMPORTANT PART IN
THE DECISIVE VICTORY THAT LEFT
THEM IN CONTROL OF THE GOLAN
HEIGHTS AND SINAI.
BRIGADIER GENERAL IN THE YOM
KIPPUR WAR WHEN HE RESPONDED T
EGYPT AND SYRIA'S SURPRISE
ATTACK WITH A COUNTERATTACK THAT
CUT OFF THE EGYPTIAN ARMY IN
SINAI.
IT MARKED THE TURNING POINT IN
THE WAR.
AFTER RETIRING FROM THE ARMY
SHARON PLUNGED INTO THRE
DECADES OF POLITICS.
AS A PRIME MINISTER'S AIDE AND
HEAD OF DIFFERENT CABINE
MINISTRIES, HE PROMOTED A HARD
LINE ON SECURITY ISSUES.
ABOVE ALL HE CHAMPIONED TH
ESTABLISHMENT OF JEWIS
SETTLEMENTS IN THE OCCUPIE
TERRITORIES.
FOLLOWING A RATIONALE HE WOULD
LATER DESCRIBE AS "EVERYTHING WE
TAKE NOW WILL STAY OURS.
EVERYTHING WE DON'T GRAB WILL GO
TO THEM"
HIS MOST CONTROVERSIAL CABINET
TENURE CAME AS DEFENSE MINISTER.
BEGINNING IN 1981.
THE FOLLOWING YEAR, AFTER TH
SHELLING OF NORTHERN ISRAEL BY
THE PALESTINE LIBERATION
ORGANIZATION IN LEBANON, SHARO
UNLEASHED AN INVASION OF
ISRAEL'S NORTHERN NEIGHBOR
THE PLO WAS DRIVEN FROM LEBANO
BUT THOUSANDS OF ISRAELIS AN
PALESTINIANS DIED.
MANY HUNDREDS OF PALESTINIAN
SLAUGHTERED DURING A MASSACRE AT
THE REFUGEE CAMPS BY LEBANES
CHRISTIAN MILITIAMEN
A COMMISSION FOUND THAT TH
ISRAELI ARMY INDIRECTL
RESPONSIBLE AND FAULTED SHARON
PERSONALLY FOR NOT TAKIN
APPROPRIATE MEASURES TO PREVEN
BLOODSHED.
HE WAS DISMISSED FROM TH
DEFENSE MINISTRY
BUT SHARON WENT ON TO OTHE
CABINET POSTS.
OVERSEEING A RAPID EXPANSION O
JEWISH SETTLEMENTS IN TH
OCCUPIED TERRITORIES
HE OPPOSED THE 1993 OSLO PEACE
ACCORDS AND IN 1998 HE
DECLARED -
>> ISRAEL IS AGAINST HAVING
PALESTINIAN STATE.
AND THE GOVERNMENT IS AGAINS
HAVING THE PALESTINIAN STATE
HERE
BECAUSE OF THE DANGERS
>> IN 1999, HE WAS ELECTED
LEADER OF THE RIGHTIST LIKUD
PARTY.
A YEAR LATER DURING HIS CAMPAIGN
FOR PRIME MINISTER, HE MADE
PROVOCATIVE VISIT TO THE TEMPL
MOUNT, THE THIRD MOST REVERED BY
MUSLIMS.
SHORTLY AFTERWARDS THE SECON
PALESTINIAN UPRISING O
INTIFADA BEGIN
LATER IN NEW YORK, SHARO
DEFENDED THE TEMPLE MOUNT VISIT.
>> THE TEMPLE MOUNT IS THE
HOLIEST PLACE OF THE JEWIS
PEOPLE
I HOPE I'LL BE DOING THAT IN THE
FUTURE AS WELL
NO RESTRICTIONS.
WE LIVE IN A FREE COUNTRY.
EVERYONE CAN GO WITHIN THE
SOVEREIGN AREA OF ISRAEL
>> SHARON HAD DEFEATED EHU
BARAK TO BECOME THE PRIM
MINISTER IN SPRING OF 2001
REACTING TO AN UPSURGE I
SUICIDE BOMBINGS BY PALESTINIANS
AGAINST ISRAEL, HE LAUNCHED TH
BUILDING OF THE CONTROVERSIA
SECURITY BARRIER TO SEPARATE THE
TWO.
BUT IN 2005, IN A SURPRISE TUR
AROUND, SHARON ANNOUNCED A
UNILATERAL WITHDRAWAL FROM THE
GAZA STRIP, DISMANTLING ISRAEL
SETTLEMENTS.
THE MOVE INFURIATED MANY IN HI
CONSERVATIVE CONSTITUENCY AN
LATER THAT YEAR HE QUIT LIKUD TO
FORM A NEW CENTRIST KADIMA
PARTY.
HE WAS WIDELY EXPECTED TO WI
ANOTHER TERM AS PRIME MINISTER
THE TWO STROKES, A MILD ONE IN
DECEMBER OF 2005 AND A MASSIVE
BRAIN HEMORRHAGE TWO WEEKS LATER
PUT AN ABRUPT END TO HIS
POLITICAL LIFE
THE LIFE LONG WARRIOR, NEVER
FULLY REGAINED CONSCIOUSNESS
>>> AS THE NEWSHOUR HAS BEEN
REPORTING, THIS WEEK MARKED TH
50th ANNIVERSARY OF THE WAR ON
POVERTY.
PRESIDENT JOHNSON ANNOUNCED TH
INITIATIVE DURING THE 1964 STATE
OF THE UNION ADDRESS
>> OUR JOINT FEDERAL LOCAL
EFFORT MUST PURSUE POVERTY
PURSUE IT WHEREVER IT EXISTS
IN CITY SLUMS, IN SMALL TOWNS.
SHARECROPPER SHACKS OR I
MIGRANT WORKER CAMPS
>> THAT NIGHT, THE PRESIDENT DID
NOT MENTION POVERTY IN THE
SUBURBS.
BUT IN THE YEAR SINCE THE NUMBER
OF AMERICANS LIVING IN SUBURBS
HAD SURGED
IT'S A VERY REAL PROBLEM
NEWSHOUR CORRESPONDENT MEGAN
THOMPSON HAS THE FIRST REPORT IN
OUR YEAR LONG SERIES POVERTY I
AMERICA.
>> YOU WANT TO DO THE CHOCOLAT
CHIP OR SUGAR COOKIES FIRST?
>> BY ALL APPEARANCES, THI
WOMAN IS LIVING A COMFORTABLE,
SUBURBAN LIFE.
SHE BAKED COOKIES AT HER MOM'S
PLACE, ABOUT 65 MILES EAST O
NEW YORK CITY.
SHE OWNS AN SUV.
THE GIRLS SPEND THEIR DAYS AT
NICE DAY-CARE CENTER
AND SHE WORKS A FULL-TIME JOB.
>> PEOPLE LOOK AT ME AND THE
JUDGE ME BY LOOKING AT ME LIKE
OKAY, SHE HAS A JOB.
YOU KNOW
SHE -- YOU KNOW, SHE HAS A HOME.
AND, YOU KNOW, HE KIDS LOOK WELL
TAKEN CARE OF.
WHY WOULD SHE NEED ANY HELP AT
ALL?
>> SHE NEEDS HELP BECAUSE BY
OFFICIAL STANDARDS SHE AND HER
DAUGHTERS LIVE IN POVERTY.
HER JOB AS A CERTIFIED MEDICAL
ASSISTANT PAYS JUST OVER $19,000
A YEAR AND OFFERS NO BENEFITS.
SO SHE IS ON MEDICAID AND GETS
SUBSIDIES TO PAY FOR MEDICAL
CARE SHE COULDN'T AFFORD
THIS SINGLE MOM LIVES IN THE TWO
BEDROOM HOUSE WITH HER MOTHE
AND PAYS RENT.
HER CAR HAS ALMOST 200,000 MILES
ON IT.
AND IS IN SUCH BAD SHAPE, SHE'
AFRAID TO DRIVE IT
>> I LIVE PAYCHECK TO PAYCHECK
THAT'S WHAT IT IS RIGHT NOW.
YEAH
>> DO YOU HAVE ANY SAVINGS
>> TYPICALLY, I HAVE ENOUG
PROBABLY TO GET ME THROUGH THE
NEXT WEEK OR SO.
BUT AS FAR AS HAVING A SAVINGS
NO
I WORRY ABOUT NOT BEING ABLE T
HAVE ENOUGH FOOD TO FEED THE
GIRLS.
I WORRY ABOUT THEM NOT HAVIN
THE OPPORTUNITY THAT OTHER KID
ARE GONNA HAVE
SO I'M CONSTANTLY WORRYING
YOU KNOW
I'M ALWAYS WORRYING.
>> ACCORDING TO EXPERTS, STORIES
LIKE LEE'S ARE BECOMING MORE
COMMON ACROSS THE UNITED STATES.
>> THERE ARE NOW MORE POOR
RESIDENTS LIVING IN SUBURBS THAN
IN MAJOR CITIES.
>> ELIZABETH ME NEW BONN IS
CO-AUTHOR OF A BOOK CONFRONTIN
POVERTY IN AMERICA
>> IT CAN BE HIDDEN.
IT CAN BE HARDER TO IDENTIFY O
EVEN UNDERSTAND THE EXTENT T
WHICH NEED HAS GROWN BECAUSE I
MAY NOT BE EASILY VISIBLE.
>> TODAY THE NATION'S POVERT
RATE IS ABOUT 15% COMPARED T
19% IN 1964.
WHEN PRESIDENT JOHNSON DECLARE
THE WAR ON POVERTY
>> OUR AIM IS NOT ONLY T
RELIEVE THE SYMPTOM OF POVERTY
BUT TO CURE IT
>> NEWBONE SAYS SOME ASPECTS
HAVE CHANGED DRAMATICALLY.
>> WELL, WHEN WE SAW THE LAUNC
OF THE WAR ON POVERTY, THE
GEOGRAPHY OF POVERTY IS VERY
DIFFERENT THAN TODAY
THE BULK OF POOR PEOPLE IN THE
COUNTRY LIVED IN URBAN AREAS
BIG CITIES OR IN RURAL
COMMUNITIES.
AND SINCE THAT TIME, WE HAVE
SEEN A REAL SHIFT.
>> ACCORDING TO NEWBONE TH
NUMBER OF PEOPLE LIVING IN
SUBURBS HAS GROWN BY 65%
FOR EXAMPLE, POVERTY IS UP B
ALMOST 16% IN THE SUBURBS OF
PITTSBURGH
UP MORE THAN 27% IN THE SUBURB
OF PROVIDENCE.
UP NEARLY 79% OUTSIDE SEATTLE.
AND IN THE SUBURBS OF AUSTIN
TEXAS, THE NUMBER OF POOR HA
SWELLED ALMOST 143%.
MORE POOR PEOPLE LIVE IN
AMERICA'S SUBURBS THAN IN CITIES
OR RURAL AREAS
THE MAIN EXPLANATION IS SIMPLY
DEMOGRAPHICS
MANY MORE AMERICANS HAVE MOVED
TO SUBURBS IN RECENT YEARS
AND THAT GROWTH INCLUDED LOW
INCOME RESIDENTS AND NEW
IMMIGRANTS
OTHER FACTORS -- SUBURBS ARE
STILL RECOVERING FROM TH
FORECLOSURE AND FINANCIA
CRISES
FEDERAL PROGRAMS FOR THE POO
WERE MOSTLY DESIGNED BACK IN THE
'60s WITH RURAL OR URBAN
COMMUNITIES IN MIND.
AND WHEN HARD TIMES CAME TO TH
SUBURBS, MANY WERE NOT PREPARED.
>> OFTEN, SUBURBAN COMMUNITIES
HAVE NOT BUILT UP THE SAME LEVEL
OF INFRASTRUCTURE AND SAFETY NET
SUPPORT THAT CITIES HAVE BEE
BUILDING UP OVER DECADES
>> OH, BOY
WHERE DO I BEGIN WITH TH
CHALLENGES
>> RICHARD CUSACK CHAIRS THE
WELFARE TO WORK WHERE LEE LIVES.
LOCAL GOVERNMENTS FACE GREATER
BURDENS IN THE FACE OF FEDERAL
BUDGET CUTS AND THE WINDING DOWN
OF STIMULUS FUNDS.
>> SUFFOLK COUNTY IN THE LAS
COUPLE OF YEARS HAS FACE
$500 MILLION DEFICIT
>> EVEN THOUGH SUFFOLK COUNT
HAS ONE OF THE HIGHEST MEDIA
HOUSEHOLD INCOMES IN THE COUNTRY
AND MULTIMILLION DOLLAR HOMES IN
THE HAMPTONS, THE FOOD STAMP
CASELOAD IS UP
THAT'S THE CASE THROUGHOUT MUC
OF AMERICAN.
FOOD STAMP USE UP DRAMATICALLY
COAST TO COAST
>> IT CAN BE DIFFICULT TO TR
AND SCALE UP TO MEET THE LEVEL
OF NEED THAT THEY'RE SEEING.
>> IN SUFFOLK COUNTY, CHARITIE
HAVE STEPPED UP AS THE LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS HAVE HAD A HARD TIME
MEETING THE DEMAND
FOOD PANTRY ORGANIZERS HAVE SEEN
THE NUMBERS DOUBLE IN RECENT
YEARS.
CAROL YARDMISCH LEADS THIS ONE
IN DIX HILLS
>> YOU'RE ONE OF MANY FOOD
PANTRIES AND IT'S MULTIPLYING ON
THE LEVEL THAT IT'S HARD T
COMPREHEND
>> ADVOCATES SAY THEY'RE NOT
JUST SERVING PEOPLE OUT OF WORK.
THEY SEE MANY WITH JOBS WH
CAN'T MAKE ENDS MEET
JUST LIKE LEE.
NATIONALLY, REAL WAGES ADJUSTE
FOR INFLATION HAVE BEEN FLAT FOR
SEVERAL DECADES.
EVEN AS COSTS CONTINUE TO RISE
>> WE ALSO HAVE THESE LARGER
SHIFTS IN THE ECONOMY WHERE
LOT OF THE JOBS WE'RE CREATING
DON'T PAY ENOUGH TO MAKE END
MEET FOR A FAMILY.
SO EVEN IF YOU'RE WORKIN
FULL-TIME, YOU'RE JUST NOT
TAKING HOME ENOUGH
>> THAT'S ESPECIALLY TRUE IN
SUFFOLK COUNTY
WHERE MANY WORKING POOR DON'
QUALIFY FOR GOVERNMENT HEL
BECAUSE THEY EARN TOO MUCH TO BE
CONSIDERED OFFICIALLY POOR
AROUND $23,500 FOR A FAMILY OF
FOUR
>> DESPITE OUR AFFLUENCE, WE
HAVE A LOT OF MIDDLE INCOM
PEOPLE WHO ARE STRUGGLING.
WE ARE ONE OF THE MOST EXPENSIVE
COMMUNITIES IN THE UNITED STATES
IN TERMS OF EVERYTHING
GASOLINE, HOUSING, FOOD.
>> IN 2012, THE COMMISSION PUT
OUT A STUDY ESTIMATING THA
BECAUSE OF THE HIGH COST O
LIVING HERE, THE POVERTY RATE'
AT LEAST 20%
THAT'S THREE TIMES HIGHER THAN
THE OFFICIAL CENSUS FIGURE O
LESS THAN 7%
ANOTHER MAJOR PROBLEM AN
EXPENSE IS TRANSPORTATION.
IN MANY SUBURBS, PUBLI
TRANSPORTATION IS LIMITED.
UNTIL RECENTLY, BUSES IN SUFFOLK
COUNTY DIDN'T RUN ON SUNDAYS
>> IF YOU'RE A WORKING POO
PERSON, IF YOU'RE A HOME HEALT
AIDE, MANY WORK ON SUNDAYS, WHAT
DO YOU DO?
HOW DO YOU GET TO WORK
YOU COULD TAKE A CAB, WHIC
COULD EAT UP TO 20% OF WHA
YOU'RE EARNING THAT DAY.
>> SO MANY POOR PEOPLE DEPEND ON
THEIR CAR AND CAR INSURANCE AN
GAS EAT UP ABOUT $600, MORE THAN
40% OF THE ROUGHLY $1,400 SH
TAKES HOME EACH MONTH.
IN CASE YOU'RE WONDERING, HE
MOM WHO JUST TURNED 60 REALL
ISN'T IN A POSITION TO HELP.
SHE'S WORKING TWO JOBS T
MAINTAIN THE FAMILY HOME SHE
INHERITED.
AND LAST YEAR, PAID PROPERTY
TAXES OF AROUND $7,000 ON THEI
SMALL TWO BEDROOM HOME
WHY DO YOU STAY IN THIS HOUS
AND IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD
IT'S SO EXPENSIVE.
>> BECAUSE MY MOTHER IS THE ONLY
FAMILY THAT I HAVE
THIS IS HER HOME
SHE SAID SHE'LL NEVER LEAV
HERE
>> I CAN'T FORCE HER TO WANT T
LEAVE JUST BECAUSE THE COST OF
LIVING IS INEXPENSIVE SOME PLACE
ELSE
>> SHE'S GOTTEN NO HELP FROM THE
TWIN'S FATHER.
>> THE CHILD ENFORCEMENT I
TRYING TO HELP ME LOCATE THE
DAD.
BEFORE I KNEW I WAS PREGNANT
WITH THEM, I GOT UP ONE DAY AN
HE HAVE GONE
>> THE SITUATION HAPPENED TO
YOU, BUT WHY SHOULD TAXPAYER
HELP FUND SOME OF THESE PROGRAMS
THAT YOU ARE BEING HELPED BY
>> I MEAN, I STARTED WORKING
WHEN I WAS 12 YEARS OLD.
I HAVE BEEN WORKING EVER SINCE
I'VE PUT IN JUST AS MUCH IF NO
MORE THAN WHAT I'M ASKING FOR,
YOU KNOW
I UNDERSTAND THE BACKLASH, I
REALLY DO.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME, THIS I
ONLY TEMPORARY
>> BUT FOR THE MOMENT, SHE'S
FACING A CATCH 22.
THE MORE SHE EARNS THE WORSE OFF
SHE MIGHT BE
BECAUSE IF SHE ACCEPTS THE SMALL
RAISES SHE'S BEEN OFFERE
ANOTHER HER JOB, SHE WOULD EAR
TOO MUCH TO REQUIRE FOR TH
CHILD CARE SUBSIDY AND IF SH
LOST THAT SHE'D HAVE TO STAY
HOME WITH HER KIDS, MEANIN
SHE'D HAVE NO INCOME AT ALL.
>> A SYSTEM THAT WORKS AGAINST
THE SYSTEM'S OWN INTEREST, IT'
SO COUNTERPRODUCTIVE
>> THE WELFARE TO WORK
COMMISSION IS TRYING TO ADDRES
THIS AND OTHER ISSUES AFFECTIN
THE WORKING POOR
IT'S PUSHED FOR MORE CHILD CAR
FUNDING.
HELD HEARINGS TO CALL ATTENTIO
TO GROWING POVERTY AND HELPE
GET SOME PUBLIC BUS LINE
RUNNING ON SUNDAYS AND LATER A
NIGHT.
EXPERTS SAY IT'S CRITICAL FO
SUBURBS ACROSS THE NATION TO
RECOGNIZE AND ADDRESS TH
CHANGING FACE OF POVERTY
>> WHAT WE'RE SEEING IN TERMS OF
THE GROWTH IN SUBURBAN POVERTY
IS A REAL PRESSING POLIC
CONCERN, LOOKING FORWARD
IF WE THINK ABOUT THE WAR ON
POVERTY, 50 YEARS AGO WHEN
LYNDON JOHNSON DECLARED THIS
WAR, IF EVERYBODY HAD KNOWN WHAT
WAS GOING TO HAPPEN, WHAT WOUL
WE HAVE DONE DIFFERENTLY
THIS IS OUR OPPORTUNITY NOW FO
SUBURBS TO ANSWER THOS
QUESTIONS.
>> ONE FACTOR CONTRIBUTING T
POVERTY -- STAGNATING WAGES.
AS THIS GRAPHIC SHOWS, WAGES
ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION HAVE BEEN
FLAT DURING THE PAST 45 YEARS.
BUT CONSUMER PRICES HAVE BEE
RISING SHARPLY DURING THAT SAM
PERIOD
FOR MORE ABOUT THIS AND IT
CONNECTION TO POVERTY WE ARE
JOINED NOW VIA SKYPE BY
CONTRIBUTOR FOR BLOOMBER
BUSINESS WEEK.
LET'S TALK ABOUT THE GAP
BETWEEN WAGING AND PURCHASIN
POWER.
WHY IS THAT DIFFERENT?
>> BECAUSE IF YOU LOOK AT TH
FACT THAT I MADE $50 A WEE
LET'S SAY FOR ARGUMENT'S SAK
AND I MAKE $60 RIGHT NOW AND
IT'S NOT BAD, IN REALITY YOU'R
FOOLING YOURSELF IN REAL TERMS
BECAUSE INFLATION IS PERNICIOU
EVEN IF IT'S GROWING IN THE LO
SINGLE DIGITS LIKE 2% OR 2.5
LIKE WE HAVE BEEN USED TO FO
THE PAST DECADE.
WHEN YOU COMPOUND IT OVE
SEVERAL DECADES IT'S LIK
SINGEING OFF THREE QUARTERS OF
YOUR DOLLAR EVERY TIME YOU TAK
IT OF THE POCKET
IN THE END, WHEN THEY CAN'T BU
AS MUCH AS THEY USED TO, ON WHAT
THEY WERE MAKING, THEY GET BLIND
SIDED.
>> SO WHAT ARE SOME OF THE
FACTORS CONTRIBUTING TO IT
PEOPLE WILL SAY, LISTEN, NOW,
HAVE ACCESS TO GOODS AND
SERVICES FROM ALL OVER THE
WORLD, EVEN CHEAPER PRICES
SO MAYBE I DON'T NEED TO MAKE AS
MUCH
>> WELL, THAT IS TEMPERED TH
PAIN, CERTAINLY, BUT THAT'S
FUNCTION OF REALLY AGGRESSIV
OFF SHORING AND OUTSOURCING AN
THESE JOBS, THESE DECENT
MANUFACTURING JOBS, IT USED TO
BE A HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE OR
MAYBE AN ASSOCIATE'S DEGREE FROM
A TWO-YEAR PROGRAM AT A COLLEG
AND GET A DECENT LIVING WAGE
AND MAYBE GET BENEFITS AND HAV
HOPES OF RAISING A FAMILY OF
FOUR AND PUTTING KIDS THROUG
SCHOOL AND WHAT NOT.
THAT'S SO DETERIORATED OVER TH
PAST SEVERAL DECADES
YOU CAN'T COUNT ON THERE BEING
GOOD PAYING JOBS
PEOPLE ARE REALIZING THEIR
PENSION PROGRAMS ARE NO LONGER
GUARANTEED
THE COMPANIES ARE USIN
INCREASINGLY PART-TIME WORKERS
AND CONTRACT WORKERS
>> LET'S TALK ABOUT THE CLIF
EFFECT
THIS URGE FOR PEOPLE TO NOT WANT
TO RAISE OR NOT MAKE A DOLLA
MORE THAN WHAT ACTUALLY GETS
THEM INTO THE POVERTY ZONE
>> IT'S ONE OF THE EVER GREE
AND VERY VALID CRITICISMS OF THE
SOCIAL SAFETY NET IN THE UNITE
STATES
IT'S SO FRUSTRATING FOR PEOPLE
ON THE BRINK OF GETTING OUT OF
ASSISTANCE, WHETHER IT'S FOO
STAMPS OR MEDICAID
BUT THEY KNOW FOR EVERY INCENTAL
$10 THEY MAKE, THEY'LL LOSE AL
OF THEIR BENEFITS.
YOU CAN'T DO THAT.
SUPPOSE YOU'RE MAKING $19,000
YEAR AND YOU HAVE A CHANCE T
MAKE $22,000 A YEAR BUT YOU'RE
GOING TO HAVE TO PAY FOR OUT O
POCKET HEALTH INSURANCE OR G
UNINSURED AND THEN PAY FOR OUT
OF POCKET GROCERIES WHEN YOU
WERE GETTING FOOD STAMPS BEFORE.
IT GIVES YOU A DISINCENTIVE TO
FIND BETTER PAYING WORK.
UNTIL THE SYSTEM BECOMES MOR
PROPORTIONAL, YOU'LL HAV
MILLIONS OF AMERICANS ESPECIALLY
THE FOOD STAMP USERS STICKING TO
THE CLIFF.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME
>> I APPRECIATE IT
>> SEE THE CHALLENGES THE CLIF
EFFECT PRESENTS FOR THRE
FAMILIES LIVING ON THE EDGE OF
POVERTY.
WATCH "LOSING GROUND" FROM OUR
COLLEAGUES AT ROCKY MOUNTAIN
PBS.
>>> THIS IS "PBS NEWSHOU
WEEKEND" SATURDAY.
>>> FINALLY TONIGHT, A
PROGRAMMING NOTE
TUESDAY NIGHT ON PBS, FRONT LINE
PREMIERES SECRET STATE OF NORT
KOREA.
THE DOCUMENTARY FEATURING NEVE
BEFORE SEEN FOOTAGE SMUGGLED OUT
OF THE ISOLATED COUNTRY EXPLORES
LIFE UNDER KIM JONG-UN
HERE'S AN EXCERPT.
>> THE UNDERCOVER FOOTAGE SHOW
PEOPLE ALL OVER THE COUNTR
BEING FORCED TO PROVE THEI
DEDICATION TO THE NEW LEADER
BUT SOME RESENTING HAVING TO D
IT
THESE SOLDIERS WERE ORDERED TO
BUILD A RAILROAD FROM KI
JONG-UN'S BIRTH PLACE TO
PYONGYANG TO MARK HIM COMING T
POWER.
>> THE UNDERCOVER FOOTAGE SHOW
A LOCAL OFFICIAL CRITICIZING KIM
JONG-UN'S SUCCESSION
>> TO COMPENSATE FOR HIS LACK OF
EXPERIENCE, THE REGIME MAD
PARALLELS WITH HIS GRANDFATHER
KIM IL-SUNG, WHO IS STILL WIDELY
WORSHIPPED AND IS OFFICIALLY
ETERNAL PRESIDENT OF NORTH
KOREA.
>> THERE'S ALL KINDS OF RUMORS
THAT KIM JONG-UN EVEN HA
COSMETIC SURGERY TO LOOK LIK
HIS GRANDFATHER.
BUT HIS STYLE SEEMS TO BE MORE
LIKE HIM AS WELL
>>> JOIN US TOMORROW ON AIR AN
ONLINE
NEARLY 70 YEARS LATER, GERMANY
IS STILL TRYING TO PROSECUTE
FORMER NAZIS FOR THEIR ROLE IN
THE HOLOCAUST.
>> BECAUSE OF THEIR AGE, THE
MAY NEVER REACH TRIAL OR GO TO
PRISON, BUT IT IS JUST AND RIGHT
THAT WE GO AFTER THESE CASES
>> THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
"PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN
THANKS FOR WATCHING.
THAT'S WHY WE'RE YOUR RETIREMENT
COMPANY.
ADDITIONAL SUPPORT IS PROVIDED
BY AND BY THE CORPORATION FO
PUBLIC BROADCASTING AND BY
CONTRIBUTIONS TO YOUR PB
STATION FROM VIEWERS LIKE YOU.
THANK YOU.
BE MORE.
BE PBS